FRs #1055/1073: Refactor Provider Identification, Host Provider, Invoice Issuer (#1139)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/appendix/participating_entity_identification.md

# Participating Entity Identification Examples

Understanding cost and usage data in billing datasets requires identifying the roles of several participating entities involved in resource or service provisioning, invoicing, and data generation. The FOCUS Specification includes multiple columns to identify key participating entities, these include:

> * [Service Provider](#ServiceProvider)
> * [Invoice Issuer](#invoiceissuer)
> * [Host Provider](#HostProvider)
> * [Data Generator](#DataGenerator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Service Provider](#ServiceProviderName)
* [Invoice Issuer](#InvoiceIssuerName)
* [Host Provider](#HostProviderName)
* [Data Generator](#DataGenerator)
```

> * [Service Provider](#ServiceProviderName)
> * [Invoice Issuer](#InvoiceIssuerName)
> * [Host Provider](#HostProviderName)
> * [Data Generator](#DataGenerator)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Service Provider](#serviceprovidername)
* [Invoice Issuer](#invoiceissuername)
* [Host Provider](#hostprovidername)
* [Data Generator](#datagenerator)
```

| 2.1   | Purchasing cloud resources or services via an MSP, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                                       | MSP                          | MSP            | CSP                                     | MSP                |
| 2.2   | Purchasing cloud resources or services via an MSP, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                                    | MSP                          | MSP            | MSP                                     | MSP                |
| 2.3   | Purchasing cloud-agnostic resources or services from an MSP                                                                                                                    | MSP                          | MSP            | MSP                                     | MSP                |
| 2.4   | Purchasing labor services from an MSP                                                                                                                                          | MSP                          | MSP            | N/A                                     | MSP                |

> | 3.1.1 | Purchase records for cloud Marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure.                                                                                           | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| 3.1.1 | Purchase records for cloud Marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                             | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
```

> | 3.1.1 | Purchase records for cloud Marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                             | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 3.1.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                             | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
```

| 3.1.2 | CSP Infrastructure usage records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure.                                                                           | CSP                          | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |

> | 3.1.3 | Marketplace offering usage records for cloud marketplace offerings for usage charges of that offering.                                                                         | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace seller |

Reviewer 3: Metered by the Marketplace seller. The other case is metered by the CSP?

Author: Yes there is a theoretical and I think real scenario where the CSP meters the usage. I believe this is the case for AWS bedrock.

Reviewer: Review in Oct 13 Maintainers and agreed we can resolve this.

> | 3.1.3 | Marketplace offering usage records for cloud marketplace offerings for usage charges of that offering.                                                                         | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace seller |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 3.1.3 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                         | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace seller |
```

| 3.2.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |

> | 3.2.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                  | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace Seller |

Reviewer 3: seems related to 3.1.3 should it be next to that?

Also, there's two ways we seem to be writing these "Marketplace offering usage records..." and "Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings ..."

Author: @udam-stitcher I am not seeing the "Marketplace offering usage records" phrase in this pr. Where are you referring to. Do you have a suggestion?

Reviewer 3: @rileyjenk It's line 22 and 24 in the content shown above my comment here.. maybe it's gotten updated in the latest content?
> 3.1.3 | Marketplace offering usage records for cloud marketplace offerings for usage charges of that offering. 

> 3.2.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.  

It's a minor editorial thing anyway

| 3.3.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                            | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | Marketplace seller                      | CSP                |
| 3.3.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | Marketplace seller                      | Marketplace Seller |

> | 3.4.1 | Purchase records for SaaS products not running on your cloud infrastructure, purchased via a reseller.                                                                         | Reseller                     | Reseller       | Reseller                                | Reseller           |

Reviewer 3: I think this is problematic. Nothing in the data here suggests I have 'snowflake' cost because everything is Reseller. To me this was the value of the Publisher

Author: Reseller scenarios have a whole additional layer of complexity. There are a couple scenarios:

- Reseller that is actual white labeling the underlaying product and calling it their own: in this case the reseller is everything
- Resellers that are selling such that the contract is with the actual service provider (often partner type selling): reseller is essentially nothing, they only facilitated the deal
- Resellers that are selling and the contract is with the actual reseller: reseller in this case is not the service provider , they are the invoice issuer, they are not the host provider, they are not the data generator. 

Should we add these three examples?

Reviewer 3: Agree that if the reseller is white labeling, then it's not possible.
I think where the reseller isn't white labeling, we need a way for the actual entity that created the software or service to come through (similar to how publisher would have provided this -- or that's what we intended for it to provide originally). 

It feels like whether it's just more entries here or updates to the descriptions to preserve this visibility, we should do that.

Author: Check out the examples now. Added the two other scenarios.

Reviewer: Discussed in Oct 13 Maintainers.  Agreed that we can resolve this thread if @rileyjenk executes on the action item described in [this thread](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1139/files#r2427281265).

# Participating Entity Identification Examples

Understanding cost and usage data in billing datasets requires identifying the roles of several participating entities involved in resource or service provisioning, invoicing, and data generation. The FOCUS Specification includes multiple columns to identify key participating entities, these include:

* [Service Provider](#serviceprovidername)
* [Invoice Issuer](#invoiceissuername)
* [Host Provider](#hostprovidername)

> * [Data Generator](#datagenerator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Service Provider Name](#serviceprovidername)
* [Invoice Issuer Name](#invoiceissuername)
* [Host Provider Name](#hostprovidername)
* [Data Generator](#datagenerator)
```

The value for each of these may vary depending on how *resources* or *services* are obtained — whether directly from a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) or a SaaS provider, via a Managed Service Provider (MSP), through a cloud marketplace, or from internal service offerings. The table below provides examples that illustrate how the value for each dimension may shift depending on the method of acquisition and other contributing factors.

> | #     | Scenario                                                                                                                                                                       | Service Provider             | Invoice Issuer | Host Provider                           | Data Generator     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| #     | Scenario                                                                                                                                                                       | Service Provider Name        | Invoice Issuer Name | Host Provider Name                      | Data Generator     |
```

Author: We talked in tf3 and agreed that this doesn't make sense because these are not actual focus columns but just a table to identify the entities.

| 3.1.3 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                        | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace seller |
| 3.2.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
| 3.2.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                  | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace Seller |
| 3.3.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                            | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | Marketplace seller                      | CSP                |

> | 3.3.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace seller           | CSP            | Marketplace seller                      | Marketplace Seller |

Reviewer: Capitalization.

```suggestion
| 3.1.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                     | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
| 3.1.2 | CSP Infrastructure usage records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure.                                                                           | CSP                          | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
| 3.1.3 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings running on your CSP infrastructure and billed by the CSP.                                                                        | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace Seller |
| 3.2.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |
| 3.2.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                  | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | CSP                                     | Marketplace Seller |
| 3.3.1 | Purchase records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                            | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | Marketplace Seller                      | CSP                |
| 3.3.2 | Usage records for cloud marketplace offerings not running on your cloud infrastructure, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                               | Marketplace Seller           | CSP            | Marketplace Seller                      | Marketplace Seller |
```

| 3.6.1 | Purchase records for SaaS products that have been white-labeled and sold by a reseller, not running on your cloud infrastructure. Reseller issues payable invoices.            | Reseller                     | Reseller       | Reseller                                | Reseller           |
| 3.6.2 | Usage records for SaaS products products that have been white-labeled and sold by a reseller, not running on your cloud infrastructure. Reseller issues payable invoices.      | Reseller                     | Reseller       | Reseller                                | Reseller           |
| 4.1   | Purchasing SaaS products directly from a SaaS provider, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                                  | SaaS provider                | SaaS provider  | CSP                                     | SaaS provider      |
| 4.2   | Purchasing SaaS products directly from a SaaS provider, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                               | SaaS provider                | SaaS provider  | SaaS provider                           | SaaS provider      |

> | 4.3.1 | Purchasing SaaS products running on your cloud infrastructure, purchased directly from a SaaS provider (see 4.3.2 for charges related to the underlying cloud infrastructure). | SaaS provider                | SaaS provider  |                                      | SaaS provider      |

Reviewer: Capitalization.

```suggestion
| 4.1   | Purchasing SaaS products directly from a SaaS provider, with visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                                  | SaaS Provider                | SaaS Provider  | CSP                                     | SaaS Provider      |
| 4.2   | Purchasing SaaS products directly from a SaaS provider, without visibility into the underlying hosting provider.                                                               | SaaS Provider                | SaaS Provider  | SaaS Provider                           | SaaS Provider      |
| 4.3.1 | Purchasing SaaS products running on your cloud infrastructure, purchased directly from a SaaS provider (see 4.3.2 for charges related to the underlying cloud infrastructure). | SaaS Provider                | SaaS Provider  |                                      | SaaS Provider      |
```

| 4.3.2 | Purchasing resources and services from a CSP used to host SaaS products separately acquired from a SaaS provider (see 4.3.1 for charges related to the SaaS products).         | CSP                          | CSP            | CSP                                     | CSP                |

> | 5.1   | Purchasing internal resources or services hosted in Data Center                                                                                                                | Internal Name                | Internal Name  | Internal name                           | Internal Name      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5.1   | Purchasing internal resources or services hosted in Data Center                                                                                                                | Internal Name                | Internal Name  | Internal Name                           | Internal Name      |
```

> | 6.1   | Software license costs, reported separately from the costs of the resources or services they apply to.                                                                         | Licensable Software provider | License Seller |                                     | License Seller     |

Reviewer: Capitalization.

```suggestion
| 6.1   | Software license costs, reported separately from the costs of the resources or services they apply to.                                                                         | Licensable Software Provider | License Seller |                                     | License Seller     |
```
